- [Instructor] The last bit of this demo
will be to test the entire flow.
So we will start the user and the order servers
on ports five, zero, zero, five, one,
and five, zero, zero, five two respectively.
Thereafter, we will call the user service
using the BloomRPC client.
And when the user service gets invoked,
it'll internally call the order service
through that order client that we created.
Once the call gets completed, then the user response
should show us that additional field of number of orders,
along with the other user details.
Before we do that,
let's add few log statements in all our classes
so we can trace the flow of the request and the response.
So to begin with,
we are already in the UserServiceImpl class.
So let's go down and the extracted method
that we have out of the refactoring that we did.
Inside that let us add one log statement.
We'll say log.info.
And what are we trying to do here?
Creating a channel and calling the order client.
So one log statement here,
which will give us that information.
Next is we need to do logging on the OrderServiceImpl.
So let's go there and let's first grab the logger variable.
We don't have that in the class.
So on line 15, I'll just add the logger,
and this is the same thing.
So OrderServiceImpl.class.getName.
So we have the logger and let's come down inside the method.
And on line 22, I will add a log statement.
So I'll say logger.log.
Let's not say log, we'll call it info.
A short message saying, got orders from Order Dao
and converting to
OrderResponse proto objects.
So one information message there.
Let's then come to the order client
and let's grab the logger here too.
So I'll say private logger
logger.getlogger,
and this will be OrderClient.class.getName.
So we have a logger ready.
Let's come inside the get orders method on line 23,
and online 24 I'll add a log statement.
So I'll say logger.log, sorry
that will be logger.info, and short message,
Order client calling the Order Service method.
These messages, the framing of them,
everything is totally your choice.
Absolutely no restriction there.
Right, so we have a logger in the order client.
Let's double check we have a logger
in the userServiceImpl, line 45.
We have another logger on the OrderServiceImpl on line 22.
So we are set.
So let's go ahead and start both the servers now.
Start the user servers first.
So the server started on five, zero, zero, five, one.
Let's go to the order server and start this as well.
Yeah, so the order server also got started
on five, zero, zero, five, two.
Let's come back to the BloomRPC client that we have
and click on the getUserDetails
because we are going to invoke the user service.
And let's input our username and let's see the output.
There we go.
We have the number of orders field
that has now come in along with the other user details.
Let's go back to the IDE
and trace everything starting from the user server.
So here we have the server was started
on five, zero, zero, five, one.
The H2DatabaseConnection class was called
and we got a connection.
And then we have this creating a channel
and calling the order client.
So basically the user server invoked
the user service Impl, which is this.
And it was successfully able to log that statement
when it started creating the channel
and calling the order client.
The next one is order client calling
the order service method.
This is again coming in from the order client,
which is this, the message on line 24.
And then let's check the order server logs.
So as usual the H2DatabaseConnection was gotten.
And from there, the getOrdersforUser was called.
So that's the log statement.
Got orders from OrderDao and converting
to OrderResponse proto objects.
That line is coming from the Order Service Impl.
This is line 22 where we had that message.
So we saw the complete trace of the request
that flows in from the user server,
then goes to user service.
From there it goes to order client,
order service, and completes the RPC call
and gives us this extra field
in the response of the user service.
So this is how you end up connecting
both the services using the gRPC call.
And as I said before, number of orders field
that we added in the user response is just one
of the fields that you can extract from the order data.
According to your requirements,
you can stuff a lot of other data
from the order service inside the user response.
Also a small thing to note here
in case you hit your call
using BloomRPC on the user service,
and you think you're not getting this,
do you see the logs occurring correctly?
Just make sure that you reimport this proto file.
Sometimes the changes don't get reflected.
So just reimport this file
and the call should get you the desired response.